## Automated ELK Stack Deployment

The files in this repository were used to configure the network depicted below.

!(Images/ELK_Project_NetMap.png)

These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the YAML playbook file (installer-playerbook.yml) may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.

This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topology
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build


### Description of the Topology

The main purpose of this network is to expose a load-balanced and monitored instance of DVWA, the D*mn Vulnerable Web Application.
Deploying virtual machines running Ubuntu with ansible installed DVWA containers as part of a load balanced backend pool allows us to demonstrate this, demonstrate the potential of redundency through multiple web servers, while being able to monitor activity via an ELK stack database server. This pool of web servers, located behind the load balancer, is accessed via a Jump Box virtual machine, which 
Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly stable, in addition to restricting access to the network.
By adding a load balancer, we gain strength of security and also of stability to the machines added to it's backend pool. The stability and strength of redundency provided allows for us to be able to stress test these DVWA containers individually while maintaining their integrity. By accessing these virtual machines from a jump box we effectively have a platform for updates to be distributed to the other machines from while drastically reducing the potential for error in making changes to individual machines versus via the ansible playbook tools. 

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the logs and system files.
- Filebeat is used to collect log files from very specific files, in this case generated by Microsoft Azure tools. Given it records data concerning specific files, it must be installed on each individual machine or VM intended for monitoring. 
- Metricbeat allows for the periodic collection of information regarding the status of the operating system and various services on a given machine, allowing to monitor 

The configuration details of each machine may be found below.

| Name     	| Function                  	| IP Address(s)                                   	| Operating System 	|
|----------	|---------------------------	|--------------------------------------------------	|------------------	|
| Jump Box 	| Gateway                   	| 10.0.0.7; public IP newly generated each session 	| Linux Ubuntu     	|
| Web 1    	| Web Server/DVWA Container 	| 10.0.0.8; 51.143.3.206                           	| Linux Ubuntu     	|
| Web 2    	| Web Server/DVWA Container 	| 10.0.0.9; 51.143.3.206                           	| Linux Ubuntu     	|
| Web 3    	| Web Server/DVWA Container 	| 10.0.0.11; 51.1433.3.206                         	| Linux Ubuntu     	|
| ELK      	| ELK Stack Database        	| 10.1.0.4; public IP newly generated each session 	| Linux Ubuntu     	|

### Access Policies

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. 

Only the Jump Box machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:
- 104.173.255.37, the public IP of the host workstation

Machines within the network can only be accessed by Jump Box.
This includes the Web VM's as well as the ELK stack server. The Jump Box is located at 10.0.0.7, with an ever changing pubilc IP that at time of readme writeup was: 52.191.173.50 
By utilizing SSH to access this initial Jump Box from the host workstation, we then can utilize ansible to deploy DVWA containers to the Web servers and an ELK stack to the ELK server. Thanks to firewall access policies which lock the Jump Box and all other virtual machines off from the internet at large, specific rules are therefore required to allow access from the workstation to the Jump Box, and from the Jump Box to the Load Balancer which helps stabilize and allow for redundency to the DVWA containers. Likewise, inbound rules allowing the Jump Box to access the ELK server are required, as this machine is setup on a separate virtual network with its own network security group.

A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

RedSec Inbound Security Rules (Applied to Jump-Box-Provisioner, Web 1, Web 2, and Web 3 as they are under the RedSec umbrella)
| Priority 	| Name                          	| Port 	| Protocol 	| Sourcee           	| Destination    	| Action 	|
|----------	|-------------------------------	|------	|----------	|-------------------	|----------------	|--------	|
| 420      	| LoadBalance                   	| 80   	| TCP      	| 104.173.255.37    	| VirtualNetwork 	| Allow  	|
| 500      	| Allow-RDP                     	| 3389 	| Any      	| 104.173.255.37    	| Any            	| Allow  	|
| 4020     	| JumpBoxSSH                    	| 22   	| TCP      	| 10.0.0.7          	| VirtualNetwork 	| Allow  	|
| 4060     	| LoadBalancetoVN               	| 80   	| TCP      	| AzureLoadBalancer 	| VirtualNetwork 	| Allow  	|
| 4050     	| SSH                           	| 22   	| TCP      	| 104.173.255.37    	| 10.0.0.7       	| Allow  	|
| 650000   	| AllowVnetInBound              	| Any  	| Any      	| VirtualNetwork    	| VirtualNetwork 	| Allow  	|
| 65001    	| AllowAzureLoadBalancerInBound 	| Any  	| Any      	| AzureLoadBalancer 	| Any            	| Allow  	|
| 65500    	| DenyAllInBound                	| Any  	| Any      	| Any               	| Any            	| Deny   	|

ELK-nsg Inbound Security Rules (Network security group established specifically for ELK)
| Priority 	| Name                          	| Port 	| Protocol 	| Source            	| Destination    	| Action 	|
|----------	|-------------------------------	|------	|----------	|-------------------	|----------------	|--------	|
| 300      	| SSH                           	| 22   	| TCP      	| Any               	| Any            	| Allow  	|
| 420      	| Local_Host_to_ELK             	| 5601 	| Any      	| 104.173.255.37    	| 10.1.0.4       	| Allow  	|
| 65000    	| AllowVnetInBound              	| Any  	| Any      	| VirtualNetwork    	| VirtualNetwork 	| Allow  	|
| 65001    	| AllowAzureLoadBalancerInBound 	| Any  	| Any      	| AzureLoadBalancer 	| Any            	| Allow  	|
| 65500    	| DenyAllInBound                	| Any  	| Any      	| Any               	| Any            	| Deny   	|

### Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because we dramatically reduce the potential for human or user based error to occur in making these configuration changes on each individual machine. 

The playbook implements the following tasks:
-Downloads and installs Filebeat .deb file.
-Copies the exisiting filebeat-configuration file to a new filebeat destination on the ELK server.
-Enables, configures, and sets up the Filebeat command module.
-Eneables and starts Filebeat, with instruction to keep the service enabled.
-Downloads and installs Metricbeat .deb file.
-Retrieves the metricbeat-configuration.yml file and copies it into the specified destination on ELK.
-Enables, configures, and sets up the Metricbeat command module.
-Starts and Enables Metricbeat, and specifies to remain enabled for persistent monitoring.

The following screenshot displays the result of running `docker ps` after successfully configuring the ELK instance.

!(Images/Docker_PS.png)

### Target Machines & Beats
This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:
- Web 1: 10.0.0.8
- Web 2: 10.0.0.9
- Web 3: 10.0.0.11

We have installed the following Beats on these machines:
- Filebeat
- Metricbeat 

These Beats allow us to collect the following information from each machine:
Filebeat will allow us to collect and parse log data from the servers where it is present, allowing for easier analysis of log files from various locations as opposed to having to manually analyze logs within each machine or system. Gathering Syslog log files, Filebeat allows users to track a detailed account of any activity made to these or other files that Filebeat can potentially monitor. 
Metricbeat periodically collects system-wide information on CPU and memory, as well as other system related statistics that can be retrieved from numerous sources for analysis. Metricbeat can monitor information regarding deployment of memory or CPU usage, changes or additions to system files, as well as tracking network statistics.

### Using the Playbook
In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned: 

SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
- Copy the ansible playbook file "installer-playbook.yml" to /etc/ansible.
- Update the hosts file to include the private IP of the machine you wish to apply the playbook toward. Be sure that the ansible playbook YAML files specifies the correct hosts that you wish to deploy the playbook on.
- Run the playbook, and navigate to localhost:5601/app/kibana to check that the installation worked as expected.
